---
layout: post
title:  "Mysterious Mars"
date:   2015-12-04 01:24:55 +0530
type: science
categories: blog
tags: science astronomy
place: Mumbai, India
list-img: "http://transearch.com.au/insights/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/when-filling-a-ceo-position-seems-like-a-call-out-to-mars.png"
post-img: "http://transearch.com.au/insights/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/when-filling-a-ceo-position-seems-like-a-call-out-to-mars.png"
---

A human mission to Mars has been the subject of science fiction, aerospace engineering, and scientific proposals since the 19th century. The plans comprise proposals to land on Mars, eventually settling on and terraforming the planet, while utilizing its moons, Phobos and Deimos.
<!--more -->
The exploration of Mars has been a goal of national space programs for decades. Preliminary work for missions that would involve human explorers has been undertaken since the 1950s, with planned missions typically being stated as taking place 10 to 30 years in the future when they are drafted. The list of manned Mars mission plans in the 20th century shows the various mission proposals that have been put forth by multiple organizations and space agencies in this field of space exploration.

In the 2010s, numerous Chinese, European and American agencies were developing proposals for human missions to Mars. None have moved past the planning stages.

In fiction, the concept of humans traveling to and terraforming Mars has been explored in books, graphic novels, and films. Examples include: Robinson Crusoe on Mars, Total Recall, Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy (1993–1996), Mission to Mars, Red Planet, Doctor Who's The Waters of Mars and The Martian (Weir novel), as well as its film adaptation. The appeal of space-travel to the planet is a major aspect to Mars in fiction.

The energy needed for transfer between planetary orbits, or "∆V", is lowest at intervals fixed by the synodic period. For Earth / Mars trips, this is every 26 months (2 years and 2 months),[1] so missions are typically planned to coincide with one of these launch windows. The energy needed in the low-energy windows varies on roughly a 15-year cycle[1] with the easiest windows needing only half the energy of the peaks.[2] In the 20th century, there was a minimum in the 1969 and 1971 launch windows and another low in 1986 and 1988, then the cycle repeated.

Several types of mission plans have been proposed, such as the opposition class and conjunction class, or the Crocco flyby. The lowest energy transfer to Mars is a Hohmann transfer orbit; a mission to Mars using Hohmann transfer involves an approximately 9 month travel time from Earth to Mars, about five hundred days at Mars to wait for the transfer window to Earth, and a Hohmann transfer of about 9 months to return to Earth.

Shorter Mars mission plans have round-trip flight times of 400 to 450 days, but requiring a higher energy. A fast Mars mission of 245 days round trip could be possible with on-orbit staging. In 2014 ballistic capture was proposed, which may reduce fuel cost and provide more flexible launch windows compared to the Hohmann.

In the Crocco grand tour, a crewed spacecraft would get a flyby of Mars and Venus for under a year in space. Some flyby mission architectures can also be extended to include a style of Mars landing with a flyby excursion lander spacecraft.[8] Proposed by R. Titus in 1966, it involved extending a flyby mission with a short stay lander.[8] Basically, a short stay lander-ascent vehicle would separate from a "parent" Earth-Mars transfer prior to its flyby of Mars.[8] The Ascent-Decent lander would arrive sooner and either go into orbit around Mars or land, and depending on the design offer perhaps 10–30 days before it needed to launch itself back to the main transfer vehicle.