---
layout: post
title: "I Love Cooking"
date: 2015-12-02 01:24:55 +0530
type: cooking
categories: blog
tags: cooking foodies
place: Mumbai, India
list-img: "http://alwaysfresh.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/1708_AF_Blog_14.jpg"
post-img: "http://alwaysfresh.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/1708_AF_Blog_14.jpg"
---

Take a minute and think about what you drink in a typical day. Unless you are a true water lover, you may be getting some extra, unneeded calories through sodas, ice teas, energy and coffee drinks.
<!--more-->

Some research suggests that when you drink calories, you aren’t as satisfied compared to eating the same amount of calories in solid food.

So, here are tips on how to switch to healthier drinks that can quench your thirst and still taste good!

Read those ingredients – Beverages, like energy drinks, can be deceiving because they advertise that they are healthy but usually are loaded with calories and sugar. Common forms of added sugars are sucrose, glucose, fructose, maltose, dextrose, corn syrups, concentrated fruit juice and honey. Also, look at the label carefully because one container may be considered more than one serving, which can double or triple your sugar consumption.
 
Cut back slowly – If you have sugary drinks like sodas and sweetened teas on a regular basis, start cutting back now. Replace those drinks with the water suggestions next.
 
Work up to water – We often hear we should drink water every day, but that can seem like a challenge if you aren’t a big fan. Here’s how to crave more water:
Carry a refillable water bottle or have a permanent glass at your office desk.
Add slices of oranges, lemons or even cucumbers for an added boost of flavor.
Try seltzers or sparking water with a splash of 100% fruit juice.
 
Join the juicing trend –You may have seen infomercials for juicers or read articles about the benefits of making and drinking your own fruit and vegetable juices. These homemade juices can be OK – up to a point. First, it’s always better to eat produce instead of drinking it as you get fiber from the skin and pulp that can be strained out by a juicer. It’s easy for the calories in fruit juice to add up without even noticing.
 
Sip a smoothie – When you are in the mood for a milkshake or want an afternoon snack, keep on the heart healthy track with a budget-friendly homemade fruit smoothie! Blend ½ cup frozen fruit with no added sugars, ½ cup plain, low-fat Greek yogurt with no added sugars and ½ cup low-fat milk. 
If you don’t have a blender, mix small pieces of fresh fruit with yogurt and milk, then freeze for an hour. Experiment with different fruit combinations like mango-pineapple or strawberry-blueberry.